docs: update README with an example (#133)
BitGo/api-ts: packages/io-ts-http/README.md

Runtime types for (de)serializing HTTP requests from both the client and server side

## Contents

- [@api-ts/io-ts-http](#api-tsio-ts-http)
  - [Contents](#contents)
  - [Preface](#preface)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Example](#example)
    - [`apiSpec`](#apispec)
    - [`httpRoute`](#httproute)
      - [`path`](#path)
      - [`method`](#method)
      - [`request`](#request)
      - [`response`](#response)
    - [`httpRequest`](#httprequest)
      - [`params`](#params)
      - [`query`](#query)
      - [`headers`](#headers)
      - [`body`](#body)
      - [Decoding an `httpRequest`](#decoding-an-httprequest)
  - [Documentation](#documentation)

## Preface

This package extends [io-ts](https://github.com/gcanti/io-ts) with functionality useful
for typing http requests. Start there for base knowledge required to use this package.

## Introduction

> `@api-ts/io-ts-http` is used to define types for APIs that can validate http requests at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`@api-ts/io-ts-http` is used to define types for APIs that can parse http requests at
```

for consistent [terminology](https://lexi-lambda.github.io/blog/2019/11/05/parse-don-t-validate/) :wink:

runtime. Most often, these types are defined in a sibiling package to a service, and
used by that service and it's clients; naming convention dictates for a service named

> `<service-name>` the types package will be named `<service-name>-types`. Both clients

Reviewer: I always figured we'd leave this as an internal convention, but I guess there is value in describing it :thinking:

and services can use the types defined in `<service-name>-types` to send and parse
requests with well defined expectations. If requests do not adhere to the defined types

> at runtime, errors can be emitted during parsing of those requests.

Reviewer: `errors can be emitted` -- passive voice

## Introduction

> You can use @api-ts/io-ts-http to define types for APIs that can parse HTTP requests at
> runtime. runtime. Most often, these types are defined in a sibiling package to a
> service, and used by that service and it's clients; naming convention dictates for a
> service named `<service-name>` the types package will be named `<service-name>-types`.
> Both clients and services can use the types defined in `<service-name>-types` to send
> and parse requests with well-defined expectations. If requests don't adhere to the
> defined types at runtime, errors may occur when those requests parse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
io-ts-http is the definition language for api-ts specifications. Web servers can use the
io-ts-http spec to parse HTTP requests at runtime, and encode HTTP responses. Clients
can use the io-ts-http spec to enforce API compatibility at compile time, and to encode requests
to the server and decode responses. 
```

I'm struggling to avoid passive voice in the first sentence

"You can use..."
"api-ts allows you to..."

hmm

> Most often, these types are defined in a sibiling package to a
service, and used by that service and it's clients; naming convention dictates for a
service named `<service-name>` the types package will be named `<service-name>-types`.

I feel strongly that this information is presented too early, if it should be presented at all. It borders on minutiae and adds friction to the "getting started" process

<making more edits>

Okay, what do you think of this?

Author: Sounds good to me. I'm not sure where the decoding/encoding other than perhaps the very start? It's the argument to use this package, right?

      id: t.string,
      message: t.string,
    }),
    404: t.type({
      error: t.string,
    }),
  },
});
```

[`httpRoute`](https://github.com/BitGo/api-ts/blob/master/packages/io-ts-http/docs/httpRoute.md)s
are used by an `apiSpec` to define the `path`, `method`, `request` and `response` of a
route.

#### `path`

The route's `path` along with possible path variables. Variables should be surrounded
with brackets like `{name}`, and are to the `request` codec under the `params` property.

#### `method`

The route's `method` is the
[HTTP request method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods) to use
for that route. In our `GetMessage` example, the `method` is `GET`, while in our
`PostMessage` example the `method` is `POST`.

#### `request`

The route's `request` is the output of the `httpRequest` function. This will be
described below.

#### `response`

The route's `response` describes the possible
[HTTP responses](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status) the route can
produce. The key-value pairs of the `response` object are an HTTP status code followed
by the `io-ts` type of the response body. In our `GetMessage` example, a `200` status

> response yeilds a payload of a JSON object with two properties, `message` which is a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
response yields a payload of a JSON object with two properties, `message` which is a
```

worth investigating a spell-checker

> `String` and `id` which is also a `String`, and a `404` yeilds a payload of a JSON

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`string` and `id` which is also a `string`, and a `404` yeilds a payload of a JSON
```

the native types are lower-case in TypeScript

object with a single property `error` which is a `String`.

### `httpRequest`

`httpRequest` is used to build the type expected to be passed as a request to our route.
In our example `GetMessage`

```typescript
...
export const GetMessage = httpRoute({
  path: '/message/{id}',
  method: 'GET',
  request: httpRequest({
    params: {
      id: t.string
    },
  }),
...
```

There are a total of four properties, all optional, of an `httpRequest`: `params` (shown
in the example), `query`, `headers`, and `body`.

#### `params`

`params` is an object representing the types of path parameters in a URL. Any URL
parameters in the `path` property of an `httpRoute` must be accounted for in the
`params` property of the `httpRequest`. Our request has a single URL parameter it is

> expecting, `id`. This is the type of this parameter is captured in the `params` object

Reviewer 2: I think there's an extra word or so in this sentence that needs to be cut for clarity.

of our `httpRequest`.

#### `query`

> `query` is an object representing the values passed in via a query parameters at the end

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`query` is the object representing the values passed in via query parameters at the end
```

> of a URL. We could add a new route `GetMessages` to our API that would search messages

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of a URL. The following example uses a new route, `GetMessages`, to our API that searches messages
```

> related to a specific `author` thusly:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
related to a specific `author`:
```

```typescript
...
export const GetMessages = httpRoute({
  path: '/messages',
  method: 'GET',
  request: httpRequest({
    query: {
      author: t.string
    },
  }),

> ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // ...
```

});
```

#### `headers`

`headers` is an object representing the types of the
[HTTP headers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers) passed in with
a request.

#### `body`

`body` is an object representing the type of the
[HTTP body](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Messages#body) of a
request. Often this is a JSON object. The `CreateMessage` `httpRoute` in our example

> uses the `body` property.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
uses the `body` property:
```

```typescript
export const CreateMessage = httpRoute({
  path: '/message',
  method: 'POST',
  request: httpRequest({
    body: {
      message: t.string
    }
  }),
...
});
```

#### Decoding an `httpRequest`

> When `httpRequests` are decoded using `io-ts` helpers, the properties of the request are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you decode `httpRequests` using `io-ts` helpers, the properties of the request are
```

express in the type system) and therefore someone calling the API can be confident that
the server will correctly interpret a request if the arguments typecheck.

## Example

> Lets drill into the `*-types` package for an example service called `message-user`
> service. The top-level export for any `*-types` package is an
> [`apiSpec`](https://github.com/BitGo/api-ts/blob/master/packages/io-ts-http/docs/apiSpec.md).
> The following is a `message-user-types` definition:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's define the api-ts spec for a hypothetical `message-user`
service. The conventional top-level export is an 
[`apiSpec`](https://github.com/BitGo/api-ts/blob/master/packages/io-ts-http/docs/apiSpec.md) value; for example:
```

> may be added in the future.

The top-level export for `message-user-types` is `API`, which we define as an `apiSpec`
with two endpoints `api/v1/message` and `api/v1/user`. The `api/v1/message` endpoint
responds to `GET` and `POST` verbs while the second reponds to `GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, and
`DELETE` verbs using `httpRoute`s defined in `./routes/message`. The following are the
`httpRoute`s defined in `./routes/message`.

### `httpRoute`

```typescript
import * as t from 'io-ts';
import { httpRoute, httpRequest } from '@api-ts/io-ts-http';

export const GetMessage = httpRoute({
  path: '/message/{id}',
  method: 'GET',
  request: httpRequest({
    params: {
      id: t.string,
    },
  }),
  response: {
    200: t.type({
      id: t.string,
      message: t.string,
    }),
    404: t.type({
      error: t.string,
    }),
  },
});

export const CreateMessage = httpRoute({
  path: '/message',
  method: 'POST',
  request: httpRequest({
    body: {
      message: t.string,
    },
  }),
  response: {
    200: t.type({
      id: t.string,
      message: t.string,
    }),
    404: t.type({
      error: t.string,
    }),
  },
});
```

> The first import is the `io-ts` package. It's usually imported `as t` for use in
> describing the types of data properties. Again, review
> [io-ts](https://github.com/gcanti/io-ts) documentation for more context on how to use it
> and this package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first import is the `io-ts` package. It's usually imported `as t` for use in
describing the types of data properties. Again, review
[io-ts](https://github.com/gcanti/io-ts) documentation for more context on how to use it
and this package.
```

I waffle on whether or not we can consider this assumed knowledge of our audience. I suppose we'd best not consider it base knowledge.

Where did we first reference the io-ts readme? (Referencing the word `Again,`)

```suggestion
The first import is the `io-ts` package, which provides the foundation for arbitrary-precision in defining api-ts specifications. Review
[the io-ts documentation](https://github.com/gcanti/io-ts/blob/master/index.md) to learn more.
```

Reviewer 3: The Preface mentions `io-ts` and provides a link to the docs for it.
